Terminalpython and outputsaving (#7)
ESA-Datalabs/datalabtools: docs/Using python in the terminal.md

# Using python in the termial

> The standard jupyterlab environment runs on python3.11 currently.
> When one wants to start a script from the terminal, the standard jupyterlab datalabs does not include an alias for this python version.
> The python installation can be found from a notebook via

Reviewer: Would make more generic
```suggestion
In some cases the standard jupyterlab environment may use a different Python interpreter than the system's default.
The python installation used by Jupyter can be found from a notebook via
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

import os, sys

> os.path.dirname(sys.executable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# this will display the the path to the Python binary used in Jupyter
os.path.dirname(sys.executable)
```

>>>/opt/miniconda/bin
```
then an alias can be defined in the terminal, for example
```bash

> alias python3.11='/opt/miniconda/bin'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alias python='/opt/miniconda/bin'
```

may be simpler?

Author: Yeah I though about it, but python already refers to python2.7 and python3 to 3.6.5 I was unsureif verwriting those could possibly break something. This would be the safer route (applicable in the case of a more general datalabs where something might refer to that python)

Reviewer: the alias is only applied during the current terminal session and user, I think. So shouldn't be too risky

```

> then python can be launched from inside the terminal by calling the alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then calling `python` inside the terminal will launch that version.
```
